The Sparrow and his Four Children


A sparrow had four Young Ones in a swallow's nest, but just as they were fledged some naughty boys discovered the nest and  pushed the birds out; but happily a slight breeze was blowing at the time, and bore them up. But the Old Sparrow was sorry  because her Children were gone out into the world before she had  warned them of its dangers, or taught them good manners.
 
Now, in the spring time a great many sparrows chanced to  meet together in a field of corn, and among them the old Sparrow  happily met with his Young Ones and took them home with him  in great joy. " Ah ! my dear children," he said to them, " what a  trouble I have been in about you all the summer, while you faced  the world without my advice : now hear my words, and attend to  your father, and take care of yourselves, for little birds must  needs meet great dangers."
  
Thereupon he asked his eldest Young One where he had been during the summer, and how he had kept himself. "I have been in a garden," he replied, "eating caterpillars and worms, till the cherries were ripe." "Ah ! my dear son," replied the Old Bird, "bill-grubbing is not so bad; but there is great danger in it;  therefore keep a good look out, especially if people come into the  garden carrying long green poles, which are nevertheless hollow,  and have a small hole at the top!"
 
"Yes, my dear father," replied the young Sparrow ; "but  what if a green leaf is stuck with wax over that little hole ?" " Where have you so seen it?" inquired the father. "In  a merchant's garden," was the reply. " Oh! my son," cried the Old Bird, "merchants are crafty people; truly you have been  among the world's children, and have seen their cunning ways; take care now that you make a good use of what you have learnt;  and do not be too confiding."
  
Then he asked the second Young One where he had been. "At court," he replied. "Sparrows and those sort of birds do not  belong to such places as that," said the father; "at court there are  much gold, velvet, silk, armour, harness, and such birds as hawks,  falcons, and owls. Do you keep to the stables where they store the oats, or thrash out the corn, and then you can satisfy your  wants with a daily supply of food." "Yes, father," said the son; "but if the boys weave their straw into knots and meshes, many  an one may get hanged by them."
  
"Where have you seen that ?" asked the Old Bird.
  
"At court among the stable boys."
  
"Ah ! my son, stable boys are bad boys! If you have been at court with the fine lords, and yet have left behind you no feathers, you have learnt carefully, and know how to behave yourself in  the world: still keep a sharp watch, for the wolves often eat the  cleverest dogs."
  
"And where have you sought your living?" asked the Old Bird of his third Young One. "On the highways and by ways I have turned over tubs and ropes, and so now and then I have happened with corn and barley seed."
  
"That is, indeed, a fine subsistence," said the father; "but mind you observe the hedges, and see that no one bends down to pick up a stone ; for if so, it is time for you to start."

"That is true," said the young Bird; "but what if one should carry little pebbles in his bosom or pocket before stone walls?"
  
"Where have you seen that?"
  
"With the miners, dear father," he replied; "for when they travel about they carry with them secretly stones to throw at people."
  
"Oh, miners, working people, curious people they! If you have been among them you have seen and experienced a great deal."
  
At last the father came to the youngest son, and said, "Ah! my dear Cackle nestle, you were always the weakest and most  foolish; do you stop with me, the world has so many wicked  and rough birds with sharp beaks and long claws, who attack and  devour all the little birds : keep you with me, and let the worms  and spiders on the trees and ground near us content you."
  
"Ah! my dear father, he who finds his own living without  injury to others, he fares well, and no hawk, owl, eagle, or falcon  shall harm him ; for at all times, and every morning and evening  he desires of God his daily food, of God who is both the Creator  and Protector of all the forest and village birds, and who also feeds the young ravens, and hears their cries, for without His will no sparrow nor starling falls to the ground."
 
"Where did you learn all this?" cried the Old Bird, astonished.
 
"When the breeze took me away," replied the Bird, "I came to a church, where I spent the summer in eating the flies and  spiders off the windows, and there I heard the sermon preached, for the Father of all Sparrows nourished me through the summer, and kept me from all misfortune and fierce birds!"

"True, my dear son," said the Old Bird; "fly back to the church and keep the flies and spiders from the windows. Also forget not to chirp to God like the ravens, and pray to the Creator daily, and so you will keep well, were the whole world full of wild knavish birds: for he who commends his affairs to God, endures all, prays, and is gentle and kind, keeps his faith strictly, and his conscience clear, him God will ever protect and  defend."