Three Little Tales about Toads

I.  
Once upon a time there was a little Girl whose mother gave her every day at noon a little basin of milk and bread, which she used to eat, sitting outside the house in the court. Once when she began to eat there came a little Toad out of a crack in the  wall, which put its head into the milk, and drank some. Child was pleased with this; and the next day, and every day when she sat there with her basin, and the Toad did not make its appearance, she used to call it thus:-
 
"Toadie, Toadie, quickly come;
  
Hither come, my pet;
  
And you shall have a little crumb
  
And milk before you set!"
  
At these words the Toad would run and squat itself down to its feast. It showed itself grateful too, for it always brought the child something out of its secret treasures,-shining stones, pearls, or golden toys. But the Toad would only drink milk, and not touch the bread; so once the Child took its little spoon, and tapped the Toad gently on the head, saying, "Eat some bread too, pet!" The mother, standing in the kitchen, heard  the Child speaking to something, and when she saw it tap the Toad with its spoon she ran out with a faggot of wood and killed the good creature.
  
From that time a change came over the Child. So long as the Toad had played with it, it had grown strong and hearty, but now its red cheeks vanished, and it became quite thin.  Soon the death-bird began to scream in the forest, and the redbreasts collected leaves and twigs for a crown of death; and by-and-by the poor little Child lay on a bier.  

II.
  
An orphan Child was sitting and spinning on the city wall,  and saw a Toad come out of an opening beneath the wall. The  Child quickly spread out its blue cotton handkerchief near  itself, so that the Toad might be obliged to walk over it; and, as the Child hoped, rest upon it. As soon as the Toad saw  what was done it turned round, and came again, bringing a little golden crown, which it laid down on the handkerchief, and  then returned to its hole. The little Girl took up the crown,  which was spun of delicate threads of gold, and glittered in the  sun, and put it out of sight ; so the Toad, when it came again, could not see it.

Thereupon the poor Toad crept up to the wall, and beat its  little head against it till it lost all strength, and fell down dead. Now, if the Child had left the crown where it was laid, the Toad  would have brought more treasures out of its hole.  

III.
  
"Huhu, huhu!" cried a Toad.
 
"Come hither!" said a Child to it. When the Toad came the Child asked,
  
"Have you seen my sister, Red-Stocking, this morning ?"
  
"No, no; not I!" croaked the Toad, "how should I! huhu,  huhu!"
 
And the Toad hopped away.