AI-generated Aschenputtel

There was once a rich man whose wife lay sick, and when she felt her end drawing near she called to her only daughter to come near her bed, and said,

"Dear child, be pious and good, and God will always take care of you, and I will look down upon you from heaven, and will be with you."

And then she closed her eyes and expired. The maiden went every day to her mother's grave and wept, and was always pious and good. When the winter came the snow covered the grave with a white covering, and when the sun came in the early spring and melted it away, the man took to himself another wife. She was beautiful and young, and when the girl saw her she was vexed, for she knew her father's heart was given to her, and she could not make him forget her mother.

One day the father said to the new wife, "My dear child, I wish to go and visit my kinsmen, who live in a distant land. Take care of my house and my child, and give her the best you have, and if she does not please you, I will take her with me."

"Yes, father," said the stepmother, "I will do that, but I cannot promise that I shall love her."

The girl was happy at first, for she had fine clothes, and her stepmother gave her the best food, but when a long time passed, and she saw that her stepmother's heart was not softened, she began to feel that she was not loved.

One day when she had been crying, her stepmother came to her and asked her why her eyes were red.

"I have a pain in my heart," replied the girl.

"Ah, child," said the wicked woman, "that is easily cured, come with me," and she led her into a chamber which was filled with beautiful flowers, and she said to her, "Sit down here, and look at these roses, they are the most beautiful in the world, and you shall have a basket full, but you must not touch them, or pluck them, or you will be pricked by their thorns."

The girl sat down by the window and gazed at the roses, and they seemed to be very beautiful, but she could not help thinking that they were like her stepmother, beautiful on the outside, but within bitter and cruel. She longed to have the power to gather them up and to take them to her mother's grave, and there to lay them on it, but she was afraid of their thorns.

One day, as she was sitting there, her stepmother entered the room, and said to her, "I have a great favour to ask you, child, my eldest son is coming home, and he will be here in a fortnight, and I wish you to make him some shirts. He is a handsome lad, and you will like him."

The girl felt a pang of jealousy, and thought that her stepmother wanted to tempt her, but she answered, "I will do my best, stepmother," and went and made the shirts, and when they were ready she brought them to her stepmother.

"Now," said the wicked woman, "I have a harder task for you. You must go into the forest and cut down a beautiful tree, and bring back its branches, that I may make a couch for my son out of them."

The girl knew that this would be a difficult task, and she was afraid, but she determined to do it. She took with her an axe, and set off into the forest, and she went on until she came to a large oak tree, and it was so grand and beautiful that she stood still and gazed at it.

"O mighty tree," she said, "can I cut thee down and destroy thee? Thou hast stood here so long, and seen so many generations come and go, and I, a poor girl, and a stranger to thee, must cut thee down to please a heartless woman."

The tree answered her, "Fear not, thou shalt not destroy me, for I am a friend to thee, and will help thee. Strike with thy axe on this side, and I will bend low, and no harm shall come to thee."

The girl did as the tree had told her, and it bent low, and she was able to cut it down without injury. She then took the branches home, and her stepmother was pleased, and the prince was delighted with the couch which was made for him out of them.

But when the prince came home, he was surprised to see a beautiful maiden at his mother's table, and he was attracted to her, and he asked her name, and she told him that she was called Aschenputtel. And when he learned that she had made the shirts for him, and had brought the branches of the tree, he knew that she was the one he had loved, and he asked her to be his wife, and she consented.

Then the wicked stepmother was filled with rage and jealousy, and she said to Aschenputtel, "If thou wilt be my husband's wife, thou must first prove that thou art worthy of him, and that thou canst do all the duties of a wife."

And she set before her a number of tasks, and Aschenputtel did them all, and she was then proved to be worthy of the prince, and they were married, and the wicked stepmother was put away, and the girl's mother appeared to her in a vision, and blessed her, and the girl lived happily ever after.

The girl, filled with determination, ventured deep into the forest, armed with an axe. She came across a mighty oak tree, its branches reaching high, its trunk strong and sturdy. She approached it hesitantly, speaking to it in awe. The tree responded, its voice deep and resonant. It assured her that she could cut it down without harm, for it would bend low as she struck. Trusting the tree's words, she did as it advised. The tree bent low, and she was able to chop it down, its branches falling gently at her feet. With newfound strength, she returned to her stepmother, presenting the tree branches as proof of her accomplishment. The prince, upon seeing her, was captivated by her bravery and beauty, and proposed to her. Aschenputtel accepted, and they were married, banishing the wicked stepmother from their lives. Her mother, appearing in a dream, blessed her daughter, and Aschenputtel lived happily ever after.