AI-generated The Knapsack, the Hat, and the Horn

Once upon a time there were three brothers who every day sank deeper and deeper in poverty, until at last their need was so great that they were in danger of death from starvation, having nothing to bite or break. So they said to one another, "We cannot go on in this way; we had better go forth into the wide world and seek our fortunes." With these words they got up and set out, and travelled many a long mile over green fields and meadows without happening with any luck. One day they arrived in a large forest, and in the middle of it they found a hill, which, on their nearer approach, they saw was all silver. At this sight the eldest brother said, "Now I have met with my expected good fortune, and I desire nothing better." And, so saying, he took as much of the silver as he could carry and turned back again to his house. But the second brother said, "If he can be so rich, I also will be rich, and I will take as much as I can carry." And he too took as much as he could carry and turned back again. But the third brother said, "Neither silver nor gold is it that I lack; but that which I lack I see upon this hill." And he took a knapsack, a hat, and a horn, and went on. Now it happened that, as he journeyed on, he met a man who asked, "What dost thou want, good fellow?" And he answered, "I am a poor man, and I lack nothing but a wife." "Then," said the man, "take my eldest daughter to be thy wife." And he went with him, and they were married, and lived happily ever after.

Now the second brother, who had stayed behind, grew more and more envious of his elder brother's prosperity, and at last, unable longer to endure it, he set out also to seek his fortunes. He travelled many miles, and at last came to a large castle, and there he was taken in as a servant. Now it happened that the master of the castle was a man who loved to hunt, and he took the second brother with him on all his hunts. And one day, as they were riding out, they came upon a herd of wild goats, and the master of the castle said to him, "Here take my hat and put it on, that we may not be seen by the goats." And the second brother took the hat and put it on. But as they came nearer and nearer to the goats, it happened that one of them looked at the second brother and said, "Ha, ha! There is the master of the castle, I see him by his hat." And the goats all fled. And the master was angry, and said to the second brother, "Thou hast betrayed me, and thou shalt be punished." And he punished him sorely, and at last he cast him out of the castle.

Meanwhile the third brother, who was married to the king's daughter, lived on in happiness, and he had three sons, who grew up to be strong and brave men. And when they were grown up, the eldest said to his father, "Father, we have heard that our two brothers are still alive, and that they are in great need. Let us go and seek them out, and bring them home with us." And the father said, "Go, and may God be with you." And they set out and travelled many miles until at last they came to the place where the second brother had been cast out. And they found him sitting by the wayside, and he was very old and feeble. And they took him home with them, and he lived with them and was happy.

Now the third brother had a great many possessions, and he divided them all among his three brothers and his three sons, so that all were rich. And they all lived happily ever after, until the end of their days.

One day, as the third brother was out hunting, he stumbled upon a beautiful maiden, weeping by the side of a brook. Intrigued by her beauty, he approached her and asked what was wrong. The maiden told him that she had been cursed by an enchantress, who had transformed her into a frog. She begged the brother to lift the curse by kissing her. Reluctantly, he agreed and kissed her. To his surprise, she transformed into a stunningly beautiful princess. Gratitude filled her eyes as she thanked him and offered to reward him with a favor. The brother, moved by her gratitude, asked for nothing but her hand in marriage. They were married on the spot, and the princess revealed that she had a magical gift: she could grant wishes to three people in her lifetime. The third brother, being generous, wished for his two brothers to be found and brought to him. The princess used her powers to locate them, and they were reunited with their brother and lived happily ever after. The end.