The Faithful Beasts


There was once a Man who had not a great deal of money, but with the little he had he wandered into the wide world. Soon he came to a village where the boys were running together  screaming and laughing, and he asked them what was the matter. "Oh!" replied they, " we have got a mouse which we are  going to teach to dance: only see what a beautiful spot it is; how it will skip round !" The Man, however, pitied the poor  Mouse, and said, "Let it escape, my boys, and I will give you  money." So he gave them some coppers, and they let the poor animal loose, which ran as fast as it could into a hole close by.  After this the Man went on and came to another village, where  the boys had a Monkey, which they forced to dance and tumble, and laughed at without letting the poor thing have any rest. To  these also the Man gave money that they might release the Monkey; and by-and-by, coming to a third village, he saw the boys  making a Bear in chains dance and stand upright, and if he growled they seemed all the better pleased. This animal's liberty the Man also purchased, and the Bear, very glad to find  himself on his four feet again, tramped away.
  
The Man, however, with these purchases spent all his  money, and he found he had not a copper farthing even left in his  pocket. So he said to himself, "The King has much in his  treasure-chamber which he does not want: of hunger I cannot die; I must take some of this money, and then when I become  rich I can replace it." With these thoughts he managed to get  into the treasure-chamber and took a little from the heaps, but  as he was slipping out he was seized by the King's guards. They said he was a thief, and took him before the justice, who  sentenced him, as he had done a criminal act, to be put in a chest  on the water. The lid of the chest was full of holes whereby he  might obtain air, and, besides, a jug of water and a loaf of bread were put in with him. While he was floating about in great  distress of mind, he heard something gnawing and scratching at  the lock of his chest, and all at once it gave way and up flew the lid.  Then he saw the Mouse and the Monkey and the Bear standing  by, and found it was they who had opened the chest because he  had helped them; but they did not know how to proceed next, so they held a consultation together. In the meanwhile a white  stone rolled by into the water, in shape like a round egg. "That  has come in the very nick of time," said the Bear, "for it is a  wonderful stone, which whoever owns he can wish himself in  whatever place he desires."
 
The Man, therefore, picked up the stone, and as he held it in hand he wished himself in a castle with a garden and stables. Scarcely bad he done so when he found himself in a castle with a garden and stables just to his mind, and everything was so beautiful and nice that he could not admire it enough.
  
After a time some merchants came by that way, and, as they  passed, one called to the others, "See what a noble castle stands  here, where lately, when we were here before, there was nothing but dreary sand." Their curiosity was therefore aroused, and they
entered the castle and inquired of the Man how he had managed to build the place so quickly. "I did not do it," said he, "but my wonderful stone." "What kind of a stone can it be ?" inquired  the merchant; and, going in, the Man fetched it and showed it to them. The sight of it pleased them so much that they inquired if it were not for sale, and offered him all their beautiful goods in exchange. The goods took the Man's fancy,  and, his heart being fickle and hankering after new things, he suffered himself to be persuaded and thought the beautiful things  were worth more than his stone, so he gave it away to them in  exchange. But scarcely had he given it out of his hands when  all his fortune vanished, and he found himself again in his floating chest on the water with nothing but his jug of water and  loaf of bread. The faithful beasts, the Mouse, Monkey, and Bear,  as soon as they saw his misfortune, came again to help him, but  they could not manage to unfasten the lock, because it was much  stronger than the former one. Thereupon the Bear said, " We must procure the wonderful stone again, or our work is useless."  Now, the merchants had stopped at the castle and lived there  constantly, so the three faithful animals went away together, and when they arrived in the neighbourhood the Bear said the Mouse must peep through the keyhole and see what was going  on, for since he was small no one would notice him. The Mouse  consented and went, but soon returned, saying, "It is useless, I have peeped in, but the stone hangs on a red riband below the mirror, and above and below sit two great cats with fiery eyes to  watch it." Then the others said, "Never mind, go back again  and wait till the master goes to bed and falls asleep, then do you slip in through the hole and creep on to the bed, and twitch his nose and bite off one of his whiskers." So the Mouse crept in and did as she was told, and the master, waking up, rubbed his nose in a passion, and exclaimed, "The cats are worth nothing! they let the mice in who bite the very hair off my head!" And, so saying, he hunted them all away, and the Mouse won her game.

The next night, as soon as the master was sound asleep, the  Mouse crept in again, and nibbled and gnawed at the riband  until it broke in halves, and down fell the stone, which she then  pushed out under the door. But this latter matter was very  difficult for the poor Mouse to manage, and she called to the  Monkey, who drew it quite out with his long paws. It was an easy matter for him, and he carried the stone down to the water  side accompanied by the others. When they got there the Monkey asked how they were to get at the chest. "Oh," replied the Bear, "that is soon done; I will swim into the water, and you, Monkey, shall sit upon my back, holding fast with your hands while you carry the stone in your mouth ; you, Mouse, can  sit in my right ear." They all did as the Bear suggested, and  he swam off down the river, but very soon he felt uneasy at the  silence, and so began to chatter, saying, " Do you hear, Mr. Monkey, we are brave fellows, don't you think ?" But the Monkey did not answer a word. ""Is that manners?" said  the Bear again, "Will you not give your comrade an answer? crabbed fellow is he who makes no reply." Then the Monkey could no longer restrain himself, and, letting the stone fall into the water, he cried out, "You stupid fellow, how could I answer you  with the stone in my mouth? Now it is lost, and all through your fault."

"Do not be angry," said the Bear; we will soon recover it." Thereupon they consulted together, and summoned all the frogs and other creatures living in the water, and said to them, "There is a powerful enemy coming against you; but make haste and procure us the stones as quickly as possible, and we will then build a wall to protect you."
 
These words frightened the water animals, and they brought up stones on all sides, and at last came a fat old frog waddling  along who had the wonderful stone in her mouth, hanging by a  piece of red riband. Then the Bear was glad, and, relieving the  frog of his burden he politely said it was all right, they might  go home again now, and so took a short leave. After this the three beasts swam to the Man in the chest, and, breaking the lid in by the aid of stones, they found they had come just in the nick of time, for he had just finished his jug of water and loaf of  bread, and was almost starved. However, as soon as the man  had taken the wonderful stone in his hand he wished himself  quite well and back in the castle with the garden and stables. Immediately it was so, and there he and his three faithful beasts  dwelt together, happy and contented, to the end of their days.